site/docs/software/robot.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: 'Programming the Robot'
sidebar_position: 5
---

# Robot Software

## Install the Driver Station

You must have Windows to run the Driver Station. 

Download the Driver Station software from [the Ni roboRIO FRC Game Tools Page](https://www.ni.com/en/support/downloads/drivers/download.frc-game-tools.html)

## WPLib

In order to make electronics like the roboRIO, sensors, and motor controllers do stuff, you will need to write software. You could write this software 
from scratch but that would be a ton of work. The [WPLib](https://wpilib.org/) is a software development kit (SDK) that provides code to control electronics. 

:::note
Ever wonder what the `WP` in `WPLib` stands for? [Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI)](https://wpilib.org/aboutwpi) is a University in Massachusetts. WPILib was written by some folks at WPI in 2005 as a way to level the playing field and give a strong foundation for all teams to work from. 
:::

See [the documentation here to install WPLib](https://docs.wpilib.org/en/stable/docs/zero-to-robot/step-2/wpilib-setup.html)

By default, on Windows, WPLib is installed into `C:\Users\Public\wpilib\YYYY` (where `YYYY` is 2024, 2025, etc)

Commit message:

Added notes about setting up maven and radio

site/docs/software/robot.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: 'Robot Software'
sidebar_position: 5
---

# Robot Software

## Driver Station

The Driver Station is software that communicates with the Robot. Here are the basic steps: 

- Install and start the Driver Station on your laptop
- Connect your laptop directly to the RoboRio with a usb or ethernet cable
- Or, instead of connecting via a cable, connect your laptop to the Robot Radio over Wifi.
- The Driver station Communications indicator should turn from red to green

You must have Windows to run the Driver Station. 

Download the Driver Station software from [the Ni roboRIO FRC Game Tools Page](https://www.ni.com/en/support/downloads/drivers/download.frc-game-tools.html)

## WPLib

In order to make electronics like the roboRIO, sensors, and motor controllers do stuff, you will need to write software. You could write this software 
from scratch but that would be a ton of work. The [WPLib](https://wpilib.org/) is a software development kit (SDK) that provides code to control electronics. 

:::note
Ever wonder what the `WP` in `WPLib` stands for? [Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI)](https://wpilib.org/aboutwpi) is a University in Massachusetts. WPILib was written by some folks at WPI in 2005 as a way to level the playing field and give a strong foundation for all teams to work from. 
:::

See [the documentation here to install WPLib](https://docs.wpilib.org/en/stable/docs/zero-to-robot/step-2/wpilib-setup.html)

By default, on Windows, WPLib is installed into `C:\Users\Public\wpilib\YYYY` (where `YYYY` is 2024, 2025, etc)

## Radio Software

One way that the Driver Station software can communicate with the Robot is via WiFi to the Radio. 

[This page here](https://docs.wpilib.org/en/stable/docs/zero-to-robot/step-3/radio-programming.html#programming-your-radio) describes how to setup a radio.
