site/docs/software/software.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: 'Software List'
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Software used by our Team

This is a list of all the software used by our team. Click the links for more information on how to install and configure each.

| Software           | What is it?                         | What do we use it for?                  |
|--------------------|-------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|
| [Git & Github](/software/git.mdx) | Version Control, Issue and Task Management | Website, Robot Code, Project Management |
| [Visual Studio Code](/software/vscode.mdx) | Integrated Development Environment (IDE) | Website, Robot Code                |
| [Javascript](/software/javascript.mdx)  | JavaScript Runtime Environment      | Website                                 |
| [Driver Station](/software/robot.mdx)     | Controls the roboRIO                | Program and control the Robot |
| [WPLib](/software/robot.mdx)     | A Software Development Kit to control electronics | Program and control the Robot |
| [OBS](/software/miscellaneous.mdx)     | Audio / Video Recording and Editing | To record team calls, demonstrations, and tutorials |
| [Onshape](/software/cad.mdx)     | CAD Softare | Design the Robot and design 3D printed parts |

Commit message:

Added notes about setting up maven and radio

site/docs/software/software.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: 'Software List'
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Software used by our Team

This is a list of all the software used by our team. Click the links for more information on how to install and configure each.

| Software           | What is it?                         | What do we use it for?                  |
|--------------------|-------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|
| [Git & Github](/software/git.mdx) | Version Control, Issue and Task Management | Website, Robot Code, Project Management |
| [Visual Studio Code](/software/vscode.mdx) | Integrated Development Environment (IDE) | Website, Robot Code                |
| [Javascript](/software/javascript.mdx)  | JavaScript Runtime Environment      | Website                                 |
| [Driver Station](/software/robot.mdx#driver-station)     | Controls the roboRIO                | Program and control the Robot |
| [WPLib](/software/robot.mdx#wplib)     | A Software Development Kit to control electronics | Program and control the Robot |
| [OBS](/software/miscellaneous.mdx)     | Audio / Video Recording and Editing | To record team calls, demonstrations, and tutorials |
| [Onshape](/software/cad.mdx)     | CAD Software | Design the Robot and design 3D printed parts |
| [Radio software](/software/robot.mdx#radio-software) | Software needed by the Robot's Radio | This is needed so the Driver station laptop can communicate with the robot |
| [Chocolatey](/software/miscellaneous.mdx#chocolatey) | Windows Package Manager | Convenient way to install and manage software on Windows |
| [Maven](/software/miscellaneous.mdx#maven) | Java Build Tool | Maven is software for compiling and running java code |
